---
layout: project
title:  "Forza Horizon 4 Steam Port"
date:   2021-06-02 
author: Ian Hudson

summary: Forza Horizon 4 port to Steam

Tags:
- C++
- AAA

categories:
- project, 

Platform:
- Steam

type: professional

EngineLanguage: Proprietary (C++)

Project:
- Professional,

GithubLink:

thumb: 
- FH4/FH4_steam.jpg

TitleImgs: 
- FH4/FH4_steam.jpg

TitleVideo:

tagged: C++, Professional
---

# About 
This was my first large AAA project which I have worked on. My role was to work as a part of a small team to port Forza Horizon 4 from UWP (Universal Windows Platform) to Steam (Win64). This was a great experience as I was able to learn from a wide range of experienced programmers.

## What I did
Some of the tasks that I was involved with were setting up rich presence for the Xbox game bar, helping with porting network code, minor UI changes and implementing DInput within the proprietary game engine.


## Dinput
Adding Dinput into the game for wheel support was the biggest area I worked on. I enjoyed the challenge this gave me as well as the experience I was able to gain from it. This task allowed me to see into new areas of code which I had not seen before along with being able to see how internal systems such as input systems are implemented for multiple platforms.

There were some challenges from this task. The main one being I had never touched DInput before. With this challenge I went around it by not only referencing the documentation but also downloading and setting some of the sample projects which are included with DX9.

Another challenge which came with this task was working in a large codebase. Previously I have only every worked in Unity projects which from my experience are a lot smaller. This meant when adding DInput in I had to move from file to file often.

<i>If you have any question or suggests about this project or any other project please do not hesitate to contract me.<i/>
